# <p align="center">!! Predictor-inator !!</p>
### <p align="center">README</p>

### List of Classes
1. Control
2. FileProcessor
3. Features
4. Predictor
5. GUI
6. ActionHandler
7. Handler

---
### 1. Control.java
**Purpose:**
It manages the overall flow of execution, initializes components, interacts with the data and triggers the predictions. It runs the program.

---
### 2. FileProcessor.java
**Purpose:**
It interacts with the csv file, contains code to allow reading and writing to the file. 
<br><br>
**Main Methods:**
- `connectFile()`: connects to the csv file for reading and writing.
- `readFile()`: reads the csv file line by line and stores them in an ArrayList.
- `getFileWriter()`: initializes the file write to append data.
- `writeLineToFile()`: writes new rows to the csv file.
- `closeReadFile()` and `closeWriterFile()`: closes the file connections to the scanner and writer.
---
### 3. Features.java
**Purpose:**
Represents a single row in the dataset. It stores the values of the four features and their label so it makes accessing the data easier. 
! The data used was generated by ChatGPT ! 
<br><br>
**Features:**
- Ft 1. Power Status: on/off.
- Ft 2. Network Signal: weak/strong.
- Ft 3. Activity: active/inactive.
- Ft 4. Background Processes: running/stopped.
- Label. Device Status (label: DeviceIsOnline): yes (online)/no (offline).
**Main Methods:**
- Setters/getters for each feature so they can be accessed.
- `toString()`: returns all the features in a row. 
--- 
### 4. Predictor.java
**Purpose:**
Handles the logic of predicting whether a device is online based on the four features. 
<br><br>
**Main Methods:**
- `predict()`: compares inputted features with dataset rows, counts the number of occurences of yes/no labels and returns the most frequent label as the predicted outcome + a percentage. 
- `calculate()`: counts the total number of yes/no labels in the dataset and prints out the dataset size and total yes/no labels. Updates when new data is added and button is clicked again. 
---
### 5. GUI.java
**Purpose:**
Provides an interface for interacting with the program. It lets users input data for the four features and the label, make predictions, recalculates the totals, trains the model and evaluates the accuracy of the predictor.
<br><br>
**Main Methods:**
- `setupFileProcessor()`: intializes FileProcessor and Predictor (loads in dataset from the csv).
- `actionPerformed()`: Handles the button clicks.
- `createTextField()` / `createButton()`: methods hat help create the components.
- `setupLabels()` / `setupFields()` / `setupbuttons()` /  `setupFrame()`: methods that sets up the components.
- `addToFrame()`: adds the components to the GUI.
- `clearTextFields()`: clears existing data from the fields so user may enter new data.
- `createTextFields()` / `createButton()`: method to add a tooltip to the input fields and creates buttons.
- `actionPerformed()`: handles buttons and the actions they perform when they're clicked. 
---
### 6. ActionHandler.java
**Purpose:**
Handles actions triggered by the user when clicking on a button from the GUI. 
<br><br>
**Main Methods:**
-  `dataHandling()`: validates the input fields (if they've been filled), creates a feature object with the inputted data and appends it to the dataset.
-  `predictionHandling()`: passes user input to the `predict()` method and displays the result.
-  `accuracyHandling()`: calculates the accuracy of the predictor by splitting it 150 rows for training and 50 for testing.
--- 
### 7. Handler.java
**Purpose:**
Class that Actionhandler.java inherits from to use its methods. It contains the method that uses the full dataset. 
**Main Methods:**
- `reloadDataset()`: reads the dataset, processes each row, turns into a lsit of features.

### Functionality that was included:
All levels: 1-4 

